---
layout: portfolio
title: Webform
thumbnail: /uploads/2012/11/webform-thumb.png
hero: /uploads/2012/11/webform-full.png
role: User Experience, UI Design
type: Web App
item_url: http://webform.com
excerpt: Webform is a form and survey service built on Drupal and the Webform module by Nate Haug.
subtitle: While working for Lullabot, I worked on Webform, and form and survey service built on Drupal and the Webform moduel by Nate Haug.
date: '2012-06-01 13:27:44'
portfolio_css: |
  .portfolio__header,
  .portfolio__hero,
  .site__footer {
    background-color: #8faa29;
  }

  .supersmith-icon {
    fill: #8faa29;
  }
---
While I worked at [Lullabot](http://www.lullabot.com), I was given the design reins to Webform: A project by the uber intelligent [Nate Haug](http://twitter.com/quicksketch). Webform is a form and survey service built on Drupal. Nate actually built a Drupal module called by the same name in 2004. The point of the site was to make it easier for people to create forms or surveys without having to create a website.

Nate had already established a brand and wanted design work that could build upon and strengthen it. He provided me with assets and a set of swatches to get acquainted with and I got straight to work.

## The Login Flows

My first task was to re-design the login and sign-up pages. Although the pages did an ok job, as Nate put it, they felt too "Drupal". He wanted something custom; something that would make this process easier and fun.

I solved this problem by playing on the illustrations in other parts of the site and bringing them to the login screen. I brought over elements like the sunny sky and clouds to give the pages a happy feeling as well as making the forms small and simple.

> Tim's designs integrated perfectly with Webform.com, taking into consideration our existing styles but elaborating in an "outside the box" approach. Tim helped take our site in a new direction to improve not only the look but also the usability. It was a pleasure to work with Tim.
<small><strong>Nathan Haug</strong>Founder, Webform.com</small>
{: .content__pullquote }

## The Blog

Nate also wanted a better looking blog. As with any product, there's a lot to announce to users. Webform needed a blog that looked good and had some nice looking comments.

After thinking and sketching out several layouts, we arrived at the one currently on the site. It's simple, allows for large images and sports its very own WYSIWYG theme for commenting.

## Dashboard

For me, the Dashboard was my favorite to design. Data can be beautiful, and this page proves it. Nate had recently thought of new information to bring to the Dashboard. We talked over the phone and I got to work on a design for this new and very useful information. With the paid plans, the dashboard became even more essential. It was a place to alert users of their plan limits and the possibility to upgrade.

I solved the problem by presenting data in an easy to consume way. The dashboard would display the numbers in a large font-size and an accompanying graph would let a user know how much space was left before hitting the limit. It also made it simple to access forms and view recent submissions.

It was a pleasure working with Nate on Webform.
